From hanselminutes.com. It's Hanselminutes a
weekly discussion with web developer
and technologist Scott Hanselman. This
is Lawrence Ryan announcing show number
two 75. Recorded live Thursday,
July 14, 2011. Support for
Hanselman is provided by teller
rad controls, the most comprehensive
suite of components for windows
forums and asp.net web applications
online@wwwdottlerik.com. In this episode, Scott
talks with Dan Fernandez about
the Microsoft research connect SDK.
Hi, this is Scott Hanselman.
This is another episode of
Hansel minutes. And today we're
talking with Dan Fernandez. I
want to understand the connect
for windows STK. It's a
really interesting device and Dan
knows all about it. How's
it going down? Hey, wonderful,
wonderful, wonderful Glorious. So help
me understand this. The connect
came out. Everyone said, wow,
this is amazing. They immediately
started hacking it. The public
waited for Microsoft to Sue
the crap out of everyone.
And instead we come out
with an STK what's going
on. Well, you know, it
wasn't actually, you know, I
have to do the Miguel
to cause it, well, actually
people weren't really hacking it.
What they were doing was
that the way connect works,
it sends its raw data
through USB. So they were
just basically understanding the stream
of data and then using
that for applications. Now, there
is a company that Microsoft
partnered with called prime sense,
and they actually built an
API because a lot of
the technology is from the
folks at prime sense in
terms of the actual device.
And you can read the
whole press release when we
originally announced project natal around
that. But a lot of
that technology is from the
company prime sense and they've
actually released an SDK that
works with connect as well
as their own device as
well. Okay. So everyone's saying
connect tax, but really what
they mean is that I,
you know, the public didn't
expect that it's, it's a,
it's a series of cameras.
There's a lot of information,
but it is just over
USB. So it's So, so
think about it this way.
So one just kind of
give, give folks an overview
of what you can do
with the connect, just in
terms of the surface area
of that, of the API.
So the first thing that
connect has is an RGB
camera and this basically sends
still images. It's about 30
frames per second. And the
idea is you, as a
developer can get sort of
like the still image of,
of a particular, and this
is just a regular image.
And when you start playing
that at 30 frames per
second, it looks basically like
a live video stream, right?
So nothing very fancy there.
The next thing is a
depth camera. So the device
has basically shoots out infrared
data does some stuff with,
with IRR filters. I, I
won't get into all the
algorithms and stuff that goes
on there, but what it
does is a depth camera
gives you the same picture,
but instead of say the
color value of as particular
point, like, Hey, at 0.0,
this is the, this is
the color. It gives you
the distance. So, you know,
the distance of every point.
So like in a six,
three 20 by two 40
image, you're going to know
the distance of every single
point. Okay. So let me
see if I understand there's
two cameras and it's sending
me the same frame twice.
Here's a, you know, at
pixel 100, 100, this is
red because he has a
red shirt on the pixel
100, 100, he's about six
feet away. The idea is,
and that's the raw data
that's sent over. So as
well as with audio and
actually the connect for windows
at CK also is the
first, I guess, these toolkits.
And there's been a lot
of excitement around open source
because this is the first
one that actually provides audio
API APIs. And then, so
sorry. So then the last
thing is you get this
raw data. That raw data
is interesting if you want
to work on it at
a low level, but from
a higher level perspective, this
is where the magic of
software comes in. And what
the connect does is interprets
that depth, depth data, and
actually does skeletal tracking. So
give me all the distance
data and based on this,
what I'm going to do
is figure out what the
skeletons are in this particular
scene. Like if you're the
person that's six feet away,
I'm going to know where
your head is. I'm going
to know where your hand
is. I'm going to know
where your wrist is. I'm
going to know where your
shoulders are and all that.
Okay. So this is where
I want to understand more.
I, I can get my
head around. There's two cameras.
And I believe that the
depth camera, like you said,
it shoots out IRR, basically,
it's like a bunch of
tiny remote controls shooting at
you. And then they bounce
back and it determines death.
And then you lose me
at the skeleton part. Yeah.
So it's, it's the challenge
is it actually does some
stuff for, in an IRR
filter and lens. And, and
it's not time of flight
is one thing to point
out, which is the typical,
when it bounces back and
times, it it's a different
technique. It's actually cheaper because
I have a flight devices
can be very expensive for,
for a good implementation. But
like I said, it's, it's
kind of, it's, it's kind
of complicated how it actually
all works, but it shoots
dots. And then based on
the angle of those dots,
it can determine depth data.
There's a, there's a good
article on, on electronic design.
But like I said, it's
pretty, there's a bunch of
algorithms around it around laser
induced differential absorption radar, which
is called LIDAR. And, but,
but at a high level
you get depth data and
that data is the distance.
So just, you know, from
a developer perspective, you just
get depth data. I get
some number that represents an
arbitrary relative depth, or I
get an actual it's six
feet away. Yeah. It's a
distance in millimeters from the
connect. Oh, well millimeters. Yes.
Okay. That's pretty accurate. All
right. So I get that.
I get that part who
is doing the skeleton part.
Cause I'm trying to understand
that. I realized that there's
for the, for the overall
kind of connect experience, the
overarching experience, there's some hardware,
there's some work happening on
the connect, but there's also
work happening on the Xbox
or in this case when
I plug it into the
PC on the PC. When
you talked about the skeleton
part a minute ago, who's
doing the skeleton work who
decides that's my head. Yeah.
So the, the socket on
chip X-Box part and all
that stuff is the part
that's giving you all the
depth data. At that point,
we take that data and
turn it into information. And
that part is when you
install that connect for windows
SDK, or if you have
a, an Xbox, you know,
in one of their updates,
it does all the software
for you. So it's actually,
it's a software problem at
that point to take the
raw data and turn it
into, Hey, there are two
skeletons in this room and
here's every joint position I
see. So that's kind of
a secret sauce. Yes. That's,
that's the magic of software
part. Okay. So the, the
connect SDK includes drivers, right?
Like if I pull up,
let me help me understand
this. When I plugged the
connect into my, into my
computer, without the SDK, what
happens? And then what does
the SDK add? It says
it's like unknown USB device.
Do you want to search
contact windows update to see
if there's a driver? That's
what you currently get when
you install the SDK, it
does the, Hey there is
a USB device and that
USB device is sending this
raw data. And here's how
to communicate with it. Both,
both ways. Cause you can
actually send commands to the,
or at least basic commands,
the connect, the connect device
itself, for example, to tilt
the device, you, for example,
you probably see this on
your Xbox where we're kind
of scans the room automatically,
Right? It does a little
head nod, a little five
head nod September turns on.
Yeah. So that's something that's
not built into the, the
connects for windows SDK is,
but it is exposed as
an API. So you can
pretty much do. I think
it's a range of negative
27, a positive 27 and
that's degrees. So you can
say like whenever your application
starts up, scan the room
and then find out maybe
it's skeletal tracking. You can
find out the best. If
there's any skeleton joints that
are being clipped or not
being represented, maybe they're being
clipped at the very low
angle. Then maybe that means
the connect is actually on
top of a TV or
if they're being clipped, you
know, another place maybe that
like you can see the
head, then maybe change the
angle so that you can
see the most joints possible.
Okay. Now, is that something
that I, that I need
to do the work? Yes.
That is something that you
need to do the work
on. And I will say
the, the actual, the Johnny
five effect, if you will,
of tilting, it is not
something that's designed to do
a lot. I think it's,
there's a certain number of,
of movements. I think it's,
I want to say it's
a handful within two minutes
or so. So it's something
where you probably just want
to scan once when your
application opens up, as opposed
to, you know, making it
be Headbangers ball, if you
will, where it's constantly going
up and down, it's just
not rated for that. And
it'll just stop taking commands.
Is it, I mean, I'm
hearing you say that it's
cool that I can move
it though, but it's not
particularly useful for my application.
Well, well, it would be
useful because you don't know
where some of these places
that connect. Oh, okay. So
you, you give me the
skeleton information. I moved the
head around looking to make
sure that the head and
the feet are both within
the space. And then I
might say something like backup.
Yeah. So the way, the
way I've just built, like
a very dummy version. So
the skeletal tracking each joint
can give you basically it's
tracking state, for example, whether
it's being a clipped, maybe
it's like not, not visible,
like your left elbows out
of the visible range or
whether it's not, whether it
it's not tracked at all.
Say for example, if it's
on top of a desk
and it can't see your
feet or, or even your
knees, right. So if you
do a full scan and
you know, basically where all
the joint positions are, you
can say like, Oh, okay,
I got all 20 joints
at this degree, for example.
Okay. So then if my
application needed to see your
left elbow and it couldn't,
I might adjust the angle,
but I would in fact,
need to say, Hey, you
paused the game. Hey FYI,
I can't see your elbow.
Yeah. Yeah. And I mean,
you've folks who have played
with connects have probably seen
this where the game will
tell you, you know, that
you're being clipped or, or,
or, you know, you could
then show a, a, an
animated arrow to move to
the right, if you will.
So that people know to,
to move into an area
where the connect can actually
track. Okay. That's very helpful
because it gives me a
sense of what's the Connect's
job versus what's my job,
this stream of depth data
that comes in, is this
coming, is this a video
frame that I'm supposed to
do something with? Yeah. So,
I mean, at the, from,
from the actual USB device
to the connect SDK, by
the time you get into
the connect SDK, you are
getting what's, what's called a
plane, our image data types.
So basically it includes the
actual, it's a red, green,
blue, and then the actual
values that you then need
to convert into an image.
So it's a byte array.
So let's say it's a
six 40 by four 80
byte array. You're now converting
that into an image. But
since that's kind of a,
a repetitive task to do
that, would you and, and
using WPF, you know, it
isn't that hard to do
that for a regular image.
You're just using the, I
think it's a create bitmap
source, right? Call we did
for coding for fun. We
just built a series of
extension methods to do this,
which is, if you give
me a plain, our image,
I will call a two
bitmaps source and actually convert
it for you. Okay. So
that, that makes me think
that while the SDK is,
is complete and there's a
lot of school stuff going
on, there's still room for,
for stuff for us to
add as a, as the
community. So, I mean, you,
you right off the bat,
even when you worked for
Microsoft, you're like, wow, we
found ourselves taking the depth
data and turning it into
a false color image all
the time. We'll make, we'll
make a helper for that.
Then there's other things for
us to do. Yeah, absolutely.
So, and actually, you know
what the extension method is
on the image frame, cause
the, our image, you need
the size data or, or
I forget exactly what data
is within the planer image,
but basically when you get
an image frame back, you
call to bitmap source on
it. And at that point,
I can say, let's say
I had a WPF application
with an image on it.
I'd say image one dot
source. There's an event that
I'd register to get a
new image. And I just
say from that event, it'd
be E dot image, frame
that to bitmap source, it's
basically one line of code
to convert that. And one
of the reasons they did
that is to not have
present, to make it presentation,
layer agnostic. In other words,
there isn't a WPF library
in the connect for windows
SDK. There isn't a windows
form or, you know, even
a console or whatever, they'll
give you the raw data
that then you convert to
say X and a two
WPF or to whatever on
the coding for fun side,
we've done it at least
a WPS and windows forms.
That was my next question,
because you keep saying WPF
and you know, maybe I
want to use C plus
plus, or maybe I want
to use something else. Yeah.
So I should say that
the connect for windows STK
is available for, you know,
regular Danette languages. If you
can reference the libraries, you
should be, you should be
happy as well as C
plus plus, but there aren't
a C plus plus libraries
to handle the visualization of
that data. Right. So it's
not, you know, choose your,
choose your C plus plus
a UI toolkit language. There
isn't a representation of that.
Okay. Okay. Data. And then
you convert it back into
a w however, however, whatever
library that you're using for,
for C plus plus UI.
Okay. And the data that
comes out of the connect,
I've heard three 20 by
two 40, and I've also
heard six 40 by four
80, but which isn't, It
actually depends. So one, you
can get a, there's a
call for get valid resolutions
inside the connect SDK and
the, in general, the depth
camera. I think it's three
20 by two 40 is
the highest. And, and the,
the color image is six
40 by four, three 20
by two 46, 40 by
four 80. And I think
there's a 10 24 by
seven 68. And they actually,
I think on the software
side, do some stuff to
convert it into the higher
resolution. Okay. I remember that
A lot of this stuff
is based on the XDK
that you can take of
the connect for windows SDK,
as it starting basis was
using the XDK that's existed
for a while. And then
we built the manage wrapper
on top of it and
try to do things in
a more managed dial if
you will. Okay. Would you
expect that someone who's using
this STK would definitely want
to use managed code that,
that the, the idea that
I might want or even
need to use C plus
plus is not really necessary?
Yeah. I mean, unless you're
building a C plus plus
app, there's, there's no need
to use C plus plus
like in other words, there's
no, there's no secret part
of the API that isn't
exposed via C plus plus.
And I think the majority
of apps I've seen so
far are using C sharp
or VB, but that may
or may just be a
factor of, you know, there's
more C-sharp PB enthusiasts then
say C plus plus folks
which tend to focus more
on, on hardcore ISV apps.
Alright, I got ya. Okay.
When, when I plug it
into the, the PC, can
I start doing things like
controlling windows around and doing
all that of minority report
type stuff? Yeah. So at
that point, so let's say
you downloaded the connect for
windows SDK. It installs a
bunch of drivers. You plug
it in, you're going to
get this blinking green light
that lets you know, alright,
it's now working. You go
into device manager, you'll see
a way to see the,
the motor that camera and,
and audio at that point,
connect is working. You now
need an application to do
the real work. So one
of the things we did
was our good friend, Brian
peek, who I should introduce
you to, because you've met
him 10 times, he built
a cursor application. So, and
I think it's connect cursor
or, you know what I
think it's mouse.covid.com, maybe connect
mouse dot code, flex.com. But
basically think about it as
a yeah. It's connect mouse.code.com.
It's a, a curse that
allows you to use whatever
hand you want, right. Or
left hand as a cursor
in windows. So if you
want a left click, if
you want to drag and
drop images, it's again, it's,
it's an open source code
blocks project, but it just
gives you the basics of,
Hey, wouldn't it be cool
to, you know, maybe surf
the web scroll, a web
page, all using or, or,
you know, in outlook, drag
and drop, you know, an
image into a folder or
something, or an email into
a folder. This episode of
Hansel minutes is brought to
you by careers. 2.0 careers,
2.0 is a new service
by our friends at stack
overflow. You're probably all familiar
with stack overflow. The online
QA resource dedicated specifically to
programmers and programming related topics.
Well, the team at stack
overflow created careers 2.0 to
provide you with access to
great jobs and introduce you
to a bunch of great
companies that you might consider
working for. Even if you're
not currently looking for a
job, think of careers. 2.0
is a programmer profile gives
you a platform to show
that you're awesome by featuring
your proudest contributions to stack
overflow, GitHub SourceForge Bitbucket, anything
programming related, you can even
add your favorite programming books
from amazon.com profiles on careers.
2.0 are free. They're easy
to get started, especially by
importing your LinkedIn profile. However,
there's one catch profiles on
career 2.0 or invite only
they did this to keep
out the spam and have
a high quality environment. Fortunately
for you as a Hansel
minutes listener, I've got your
back head on over to
careers dot stack overflow.com/h M
to accept your invitation today,
once again, that's careers dot
stack, overflow.com/h M. I hope
you like it. Since you've
worked with this for awhile,
you spent quite a bit
of time with the connect
SDK. Do you think that
it's, it's, it's pretty accurate.
I mean, some people have
said that it's amazing. They
can't believe it can see
their fingers. And other people
have said for them, it's
just seems a little shaky
and it can't see their
arm. What, what, what, what
do you see as far
as accuracy and what makes
it more accurate? And is
it getting better? Yeah. So
one thing to keep in
mind, and this is actually
a really good point is
the skeletal tracking just by
default because it's software based,
we'll have what you'd call
jitter, right? So like, imagine
you are tracking, you know,
a hand or an elbow.
There may be a time
where it moves, say 10
or 20 pixels, or maybe
even not that much three
pixels or something. And it
just like, kind of jumps
off. So if it's giving
you that data of a
specific joint, like the middle
of your hand is at,
let's say 100 by 100.
And then all of a
sudden there's one Oh five
by one Oh five and
then 97 by 97. And
it looks like it's kind
of moving and that's where
you get people saying, Hey,
this is I, you know,
I'm getting jitter, what's going
on here. It doesn't seem
that accurate. So one way
to do that and what
was built into both the
XDK that shifts with Xbox
and it's the connect for
windows SDK is smoothing. So
the actual algorithm is a
double exponential filter, but just
at a high level, what
that does is filters out
and you can control this
pretty fine grain control on
how you want the data
to smooth out. So that
way, if there is something
just one random, let's see
out of 30 frames per
second, there's something that's four,
four pixels off. It will,
it'll be a, almost like
a smoothing average excepted. It
expires exponentially. If you will,
I won't get into details
of the actual algorithm, but
if you search for, you
know, exponential, smoothing on Wikipedia,
you can see some of
that stuff. But the point
is you can control kind
of the noise and that
helps you remove the jitter
so that it feels more
accurate. It feels like where
your hand is. It feels
like as you move left
to right, it moves better.
And we use that in
both. Let's see we have
the connect mouse app and
a connect paint app. And
since you're using your hand
as a cursor, you want
it to feel like move,
move those jitteriness. Cause without
those, and you can do
kind of like AB testing,
just comment out the, the
exponential smoothing and, and then
do it with, and you'll
see that it just feels
like it's, it's tracking better
if you will. Okay. So
it, so the hardware is,
I wouldn't say making a
mistake, but the hardware is
misinterpreting something. And then the
software fixes the error. Well,
technically it's when you're talking
about skeletal tracking, it's all
software. So skeletal tracking is
software depth. Data is, and
camera is, is the raw
data from the hardware. So
from the software, yet it
may be tracking something differently.
It may be readjusting things
for, for whatever reason. And
then what this allows you
to do is because there's
so much data being sent.
You're getting this data at
30 frames per second, right?
If there's inaccuracies around those,
it can do the, just
basically removing the noise if
you will. I see. I
see. Cause it's interesting because
I mean, there's, it's all
digital, but there's this analog
aspect of things, which is
our bodies themselves, you know,
an analog is never a
hundred percent accurate. Yeah, absolutely.
So, and I think one
of the things is you
want that it's at least
when you're starting to work
with applications today, you know,
with windows, depending on your
screen and your resolution stuff,
it can be kind of
a pain to click into
something that has a really
small head box area, right?
So if you're going into
you press star, you do
in your programs and you're
doing it to nested windows.
It can be a pain
when you don't have the
level of granularity control. And
I think that's actually something
that is much more difficult
to use for connect for
when you need to do.
There's like really small precision
movements. A mouse is absolutely
the best way to do
that. Even better than, you
know, fingers. Yeah. I think
that, that the dream is
that we'll have mouse level
finger accuracy, a foot away
from the monitor. I mean,
I know that I want
whatever the next version of
windows is to have built
in connect support where I
can put my finger out
and it'll just know that
I want to move that
window onto that monitor. That
would be awesome. Yeah. I
think what you'll find is
it won't be, you won't
want it for everything, but
to be able to, and
you know, they call it
multimodal where, for example, let's
say just window arranging windows,
you know, you probably have
four monitors. Most of us
have to, at least, at
least for developers, you would,
for example, just use a
hand gestures to say, move
windows around or, and not
necessarily for every single thing
you're going to do in
windows, but just for certain
tasks that it works really
well for, or for example,
for zooming in and out
of data or certain types
of data, maybe it's pictures
or whatever it happens to
be. I don't think it'll
it'll replace the mouse, but
I think it'll compliment it
is, is maybe my, my
suggestion. I see, I see,
I think that that, that
we want to see official
kind of official support, which
would be really exciting. You
know, it's one thing to
have it plugged in, but
to really have this thing
be allowed or even even
integrated to be a fundamental
part of windows would be
amazing. And one thing I've
noticed with my Xbox connect
is that every once in
a while I'll get an
Xbox dashboard, you know, something
minor and it'll say updating
device. So somehow the Xbox
connect gets an update from
the cloud and you know,
like a little firmware or
something like that. Do you
know if the SDK will
update the connect also, I
don't know of a, of
a plan to, and when
it says updating devices, it
actually means the connect or
does it mean Xbox? I
don't know. I just know
that I read it a
little, a little dashboard update
comes in and the, it
starts nodding and moving around.
And I'm just wondering if,
if they're, if they're actually
talking to the connect or
if the connect really is
just cameras. Yeah. I mean,
there technically is a way
to upload firmware, but for
example, things like speech recognition.
And in fact that, you
know, we haven't talked about
speech as another big capability,
but the speech recognition, the
way to interpret a language,
the actual language pack that's
used on Xbox has been,
we've made it available to
download for windows users as
well, but all that stuff
is running on the Xbox
or on your PC, not
in the device itself. So
that, again, it, I suspect
that that given that stuff,
let's say there's an update
to language packs to, you
know, add a new language
or to update the, the,
the grammar for Xbox. Let's
say they add, you know,
Netflix voice commands or something
they're going to need to
upload the new set of
commands that you can say
Xbox or, and then give
us particular voice command to.
So that's what I would
expect from, from device updates.
I see. And speaking of
a voice commands, what is
the, the voice recognition support
for the SDK? Cause I
understand that the mic, if
people keep saying that the
microphone in the connector, like
amazing, not only do they,
they know that you're talking,
but they know where you
are in the room. Yeah.
So just at a high
level, the way there's kind
of two ways people use
audio, one is to kind
of just use it as
a microphone. And the cool
thing is the, the connect
actually a mouse as a,
as a full microphone. So
for example, if you are
the next time you're on,
you know, using an audio
application and I was going
to say Skype, but you
can't actually use it with
Skype. There is an issue
using it with Skype, but
next time you're using say
sound recorder, but just the
plain old windows sound recorder,
you can choose a microphone
and choose the connect as
your microphone. So it mounts
as a, as a microphone
array window sees it as
a regular microphone array. And
you can treat it as
a regular microphone array to
say, record sounds in existing
applications or, you know, with
your applications recording sound. So
in addition to that, there
are, you can use the
speech recognition engine to actually
build speech enabled applications. So
one is if you're using,
what is it, a windows
seven, because you do need
windows seven for the connect
for windows SDK. If you're
using windows seven, it ships
with speech recognition. So I
don't know if you've ever
gone into accessibility and turn
on speech recognition. Sure. All
the time. Yeah. All the
time I've done a lot
of work with speech recognition.
I even wrote my first
book for rocks using dragon
naturally speaking. Okay. So the
bill, the builtin windows speech
recognition, where you can say,
like, if you have multiple
windows open, you can say
switch to, and then say
no pad. And that would
switch to a notepad that
just works. So there's no
code. This is just using
features in windows seven after
you plug in the connect
for windows SDK, because it's
treated just as a regular
microphone. Now when you're building
your own application. So, you
know, let's say you wanted
to do voice commands for
PowerPoint to go to next
slide or, or previous slide.
At that point, you need
to build an application you're
using the existing speech recognition
API. So there's, we actually
shipped two sets of API
APIs. One is the one
that ships regularly with a.net
framework, which would be done
at framework for O on
most machines. And that one's
probably a little behind in
terms of features. Then we
ship another version, which is
like the more updated version.
And that's the one we
tend to be pointing people
to. And, and I think
it's under Microsoft desk dot
speech versus windows dot speech.
But the point is, I'm
just using those API APIs
for speech recognition. You create
a grammar, which is, Hey,
start listening to audio and
wait if somebody tells you
this command and this command
will be say, next slide.
If you hear the word
next slide, then, you know,
current slide plus blast, Right?
And that that's basic at
a, at a really 10,000
foot level, how speech recognition
works. It waits for a
certain set of commands, compares
the audio against those commands,
and then you can take
a particular, Okay. Yeah. It's
interesting to understand again, where
the software ends in the
hardware begins. It was interesting
to me to think about
the connects job is, and
then what the algorithmic work
is being done downstream is,
and the same thing, what
value that the hardware provides
in quality and a quality
microphone array. It would be
really interesting for me as
someone who works remotely and
tries, and I have three,
four different microphones here that
I all kind of move
between when I'm Skyping. I'd
really like to hear the
quality of the, of the
connect and as an array
mic, if I could even
pace around and get better
quality than a then a
speaker phone, that would be,
that would be really cool.
Yeah. I think he should,
you should definitely play around
with it and let me
know kind of your results.
Cause I think you're probably
on a, would be a
heavy user for lack of
a better word. Yeah, definitely
a discerning user at the
very least. Thanks for, thanks
for sharing. Tell us where
we can go to get
the coding for fun stuff
as well as the SDK
itself. Yeah. So if you
go to research that microsoft.com
connect SDK and then let's
see the being put on
the spot on the, let's
see the connect one, we
do have a series of
connect for windows quick start
it's actually that I should
make sure to plug and
that's channel nine that mcn.com/series/connect
SDK QuickStarts. And that is
everything from installing and using
the connect sensor, setting up
your dev environment, basic skeletal
tracking, using the depth cameras
that, that high level stuff.
And then let's see, do
do C for S connect
that code plex.com is a
coding for fun connect toolkit.
And that includes extension methods
for WPF and windows forms
includes some basic things like
a tap and hold button
that you can use in
WPS for say selecting something
and some other low level
things to work with the
depth camera as well. Very
cool. And can I, do
I have to buy an
Xbox to do this? Or
can I go buy connect
by itself? Yeah. So you
can buy just a regular
connect by itself. And in
fact, the one thing you
do need to do, if
you've got a bundle, you
may not have a regular
USB cable, but basically if
you have a power cord
for your, your connect and
the power cord plugs into
the end will be a,
what kind of looks like
a USB, but it's actually
is missing a corner and
it's orange in there that
is not a USB. You
can try and force it
into your USB port. It
won't work. Okay. There's a
connection. And if people don't
have it, they can go
to the Microsoft store and
buy it. But that includes
basically a power plug and
a converter to make it
into a USB. But if
you buy the regular standalone
connect, then you can just
use it with no. Okay.
So Then the one I
have has USB, if I
bought a bundle, I needed
it. Yes. Although I think
there may be some bundles
that technically have that adapter,
but I think as a
general rule, if you don't
have the power after, then
you need to, then you
need to buy it. Okay.
Cool. Well, thanks a lot,
Dan. I appreciate it. Get
me up to date on
the connect. Thanks. It's been
great. This has been another
episode of Hanselminutes and we'll
see you again next week.